We're the Book Guys in Washington.
I'm Mike Cuthbert, along with Alan Stipek.
Our phone number is 1-800-828-BOOK.
Call that number 24 hours a day.
have with you your book, and with it, of course, the title, the author, the publisher, and the date.
That'll help us track you down a little bit later and get you on the air.
By the way, that's for our producer's information.
Alan Steipek doesn't know when these calls come in what in the world you're going to be talking about.
In fact, he's probably irritated that I already tipped off that our next caller from Maryland, Joel, has a set of presidential papers, because Alan doesn't want to know anything, but I apologize, Alan.
Joel, welcome to the book, guys.
Hi, Mike.
Hi, Alan.
Very, very interesting show.
I'm enjoying this.
Thank you.
I've got here, I've got a 10-volume, it's called a compilation of the messages and papers of the president, 1789 to 1897.
It was published in Washington by the government printing office, and it's dated 1897.
And it's a 10-volume collection.
It's in excellent condition, and I'm certainly interested to see what's worth this is.
Okay, Joel, which binding do you have?
Okay, it's not a question of what book do you have, but the messages and the papers of the presidents came in so many different bindings.
Do you have the leather binding?
Yes, I do.
Which color?
The black, blue, red, or green?
It's red.
Red.
Is it the full leather, or is it the thin, like, pared down leather?
You can tell if it's very plush.
When you put your fingers on it, there's a kind of, you absorb into it, or is it very stiff?
Very stiff.
Okay, you have probably a set of books that we would sell in the store for, if we were lucky, $100, if the set was, in fact, in very good to fine condition.
Those sets of the messages and papers tend to deteriorate overnight.
I've been known to just look at them and see the boards fall off.
It is not an uncommon set at all, and you will find it, especially in the Washington area, in almost every government office has had a set at one time or another.
The best set I've ever seen is a very plush leather set which sells for about $250.
And that's the messages and papers.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you so much.
Thank you very much, Joel.
Take care.
Okay.
Bye-bye.
When you talk about very good to find, what are you talking about?
Well, the conditions of books are very important to anybody who collects.
Booksellers should be very conservative in the way they define their books.
A book is mint as new when it comes off the printing press.
Mint means
As new?
Yeah, I would say mint means as new.
Fine means that the book is exactly like mint except you looked at it, you breathed on it, or you touched it.
That means it's actually been handled.
A book in fine condition should not have any defect whatsoever.
A book in very good condition can have minor defects, but they should not in any way impair the integrity of the book or the dust wrapper.
Well, what's near fine, then, which you see all the time?
What's near fine?
That's somebody's wish that it was fine, but can't make it fine, so it has to come up with an alternative.
One of the greatest things about book collecting is reading catalogs.
A very quick story.
I once had a book which had its front cover detached, its spine was missing, its back pages were missing, somebody Crayola'd five of the pages, pages 13 through 17 were missing, and there was a ring from water stained on the front cover, and the dealer said, otherwise, fine.
So be careful when you're reading them catalogs.
Okay.
Let's go out to Anne.
You're on with the book guys.
Hi, Anne.
Hi, how are you?
Hi.
Very good.
Thanks for taking my call.
This is a very interesting show, and it has reminded me that when I was just out of college, which was a long time ago, I used to wander around used bookstores, and I was looking through my shelves the other day, and I found a book that I picked up many years ago about Matthew Arnold simply because I had enjoyed Matthew Arnold in college, and I...
just wondering if it was worth anything.
It's called Matthew Arnold and His Relation to the Thought of Our Time, and it was published in 1904.
Unfortunately, Matthew Arnold falls into that category of great authors who were once collectible who no longer have maintained their value.
It's one of the things that you have to be very conscious of if you become a book collector and you really are collecting for value or you want to invest money.
There are a lot of catalogs which will show Matthew Arnold and other authors at a specifically high price, but quite frankly, those market prices have dropped because nobody's no longer interested in them.
for collecting.
The title again was?
Matthew Arnold and His Relation to the Thought of Our Time and Appreciation and the Criticism.
Okay.
Well, that's a later book.
The early, you know, Matthew Arnold, what did you say, was 19?
1904.
That's a reprint.
That's way too late.
Matthew Arnold's earlier, you know, I think he died in, what, 1880?
1880 something.
Yeah, 1880.
There are records on Matthew Arnold books that will go as high as $1,000, but this book being a reprint is really not worth that much.
It's very hard now to really get the $1,000 from Matthew Arnold.
When I was talking, I was thinking more or less 20th century authors like John Goldsworthy and Christopher Morley.
They're great reads, but...
Nobody buys them for resale, I mean, or for collectible.
Your book is a reprint, so let's say $5.
Is that a good price?
That's probably more than I paid for it.
Well, good.
Thanks, Anne.
Thank you.
Now, when you talk about authors that are good authors, good reads, but are out of fashion,
How many of them ever come back into fashion?
Well, I don't know if it's like peg-legged pants or what kind of analogy you make on it.
I mean, occasionally an author will become popular.
I'm not saying Jane Austen has ever gone out of vogue, but with all the movies that came out, there's an interest in Jane Austen for first again.
I don't think that's really a good point.
I was thinking somebody like Edmund Burke, for example.
Nobody read him for a century, and then we heard more and more talk about conservatism politically, and all of a sudden, people are writing biographies and writing about Edmund Burke.
Right, and so, you know, so an Edward Burke-Tratisse is now worth some money.
I'm trying to think of somebody else.
Anthony Trollope.
Anthony Trollope became very popular again when they started doing PBS specials.
I mean, his books really never decreased, decreased in value, but boy, now...
There was a period when Anthony Trollope went up the ladder overnight.
I mean, books that were selling for $100 were now selling for $500.
So, you know, a lot of this has to do with the fact that as movies are adapted or, you know, television takes shows.
I mean, we've seen this with John Gresham.
We've seen it with Forrest Gump.
He's a perfect example.
Oh, sure.
Yeah, I mean, that's a book that couldn't sell for a dollar, but now it's a $400 book.
Okay, who knows who the next popular author is going to be?
But you have pointed out to me the amazing thing.
For example, every week it seems like somebody's making a miniseries of Sidney Shelton, but his books never seem to appreciate in value.
Why is that?
Because I don't think the book collecting world accepts the fact that he's a quality author.
I'm not going to say anything on either side, but there are some authors that just will never be accepted for being valued as literature.
They might be valued as screenplays or TV, but they are never going to make the transition to the literature world, literary world.
Let's go to Roanoke.
Ellen, you're on the book, guys.
How are you?
Hi, Ellen.
Are you there?
Let's check Ellen.
Or have we lost Ellen in Roanoke?
I think we have lost Ellen in Roanoke.
That's too bad, because I wanted to talk with Ellen.
Should I give it one more chance?
Okay.
Are you there, Ellen?
No, Ellen.
We can't seem to find Ellen.
Well, we'll get Ellen.
Yes, our number is 1-800-828-BOOK.
That's the number that you call to get hold of us and get on this radio program.
And that's the only way you can do it.
By the way, when you call, don't be too upset.
if there's nobody on the other line except an answering machine because we want to explain to you we record live to tape.
And that means that we call you at home during the week of our broadcast and put you on the air.
We hate to let a cat out of the bag, but a lot of programs are done that way recently on radio.
And we wanted to do it to make sure that all the stations that carry us could broadcast us first when they wanted to rather than at 9 o'clock on a Thursday or whenever we wanted to do it.
And second of all, because we could get you at home, and it was a lot easier to do.
That number, once again, is 1-800-828-BOOK.
Hope you'll call it.
So once again, 24 hours a day.
Let's get back to the callers as we go all the way out to Colorado.
They're even reading in Colorado these days, huh, Eric?
Hi, how are you doing?
Welcome to the book, guys.
Fine, how are you doing?
Very good.
Yeah, yeah, we read out here.
In between wrangling horses and stuff.
How about skiing?
Well, yeah, I don't ski.
I'm over 40.
I never let my butt get higher than my head.
Sounds good to me.
What do you got for us?
Well, I got this book that my wife's grandmother gave her.
It's called The Wisdom of China and India.
Mm-hmm.
It's edited by Lin Yutang.
Y-U-T-A-N-G is his last name.
It's Random House.
Right.
and copyright in 1942, and it also says first printing.
Lin Yutang probably wrote 35 books on Far Eastern and Eastern philosophy, novels pertaining to the Oriental philosophies.
Unfortunately, none of them sell for more than probably $8 to $10 a volume.
The Wisdom of India and China are probably the most popular book, and it comes in numerous editions.
We'd sell it in the store again for no more than $10.
But it's a good read.
Now, why does it say first printing, and that's usually significant?
Well, a first edition is obviously the book you want to collect.
I mean, obviously this was a first edition.
That doesn't mean that every first edition is worth a lot of money.
Matter of fact, about 90% of all books never go to a second edition.
And then every book in the first edition is worth money.
It's a good read.
I mean, I used to love to read Lin Yu-Tang.
Matter of fact, Second City TV used to have a wonderful parody on it called Lin Yu-Tang Theater, which I love to watch because I thought it was the only person on earth that got what they were trying to do.
And Rick Moranis, I believe, or Dave, the other actor, played Lin Yu-Tang.
And I thought he did a wonderful job because Lin Yu-Tang actually used to go out and lecture.
And I've seen films of them in lectures.
It's a good read.
Unfortunately, it's just not a high-level resale book.
Oh, okay.
Well, thank you very much.
Thank you, Eric.
Good book to read in Colorado.
Great.
Never lets his butt get over his head.
Never do anymore.
Thanks very much, Eric.
Thank you.
Bye-bye.
We're the book guys here at...
at WAMU-FM, where we record this program in Washington, a very famous station in Washington.
We're delighted that you're with us here on our program.
Let's go to Nebraska, a little bit further east than Colorado, at least.
And Nancy, you're on the book, guys.
How are you?
Well, fine.
Thank you.
And you.
Very good.
It's good to talk to you.
And thank you for taking this call, because I'm really curious about this book.
It's a
One of the small, red Beidecker travel books that's on southern Italy, southern Italy and Sicily.
And I believe it was published 1883.
It's an early Beidecker guide.
Beidecker's are highly collectible.
The most valuable, the highest ones are the Russia that sells for anywhere from $300 to $500, the ones in either English or in French.
Egypt is about $250, especially the issue that came out right after the discovery of the Tutankhamen tomb.
The United States sells for $100.
Canada sells for about $100.
But, Alan, she said Italy.
I know.
I'm working myself down.
Oh, no.
We have a lot of countries to go before we get to Italy, especially southern Italy.
The majority of the Italian Betacus sell for anywhere between $15 to $35, depending on condition.
And so you fall within that category.
But collecting Betacus is a wonderful, wonderful area to go.
There are some wonderful books.
Constantinople is $200.
Really?
Right.
But, again, I'm of Italian.
My mother's of Italian heritage, and she was from southern Italy, and I would really love to see it be worth more money than it is.
This is such a charming book.
It's wonderful.
In the very beginning, when they talk about money in Italy, it says, remember, throughout the whole of Italy, the French franc is the...
is the money that is used throughout the nation and sicily it's just wonderful all kinds of wonderful little things like that oh the nice thing is nancy if you've got one baedeker you can start a collection right maybe i could i hadn't thought of that but i certainly indeed might well thank you very much indeed i've always been curious about it um
And now I know.
It's a lovely little book, and I'm going to keep it.
Thank you, Nancy, for calling us.
Bye-bye.
We're the Book Guys.
Our number is 1-800-828-BOOK.
You call that number, and you, like Bruce in Florida, can be with us in just a moment.
We're the Book Guys.
I'm Mike Cuthbert, along with Alan Stipek.
Our number, once again, is 1-800-828-BOOK for all your questions on books.
Let's go next to Florida.
And, Bruce, welcome to the book, guys.
What have you got for us?
Hello there.
Thank you, Mike.
How are you?
Very good.
Good.
I've got a curiosity here that I found that one of my wife's relatives had had.
It's called The Victor Book of the Opera.
Stories of 70 Grand Operas, published by the Victor Talking Machine Company,
In 1912, I have lots of illustrations of old opera stars and things.
I was just curious if this book has any interest.
Do you want the long answer or the short answer?
Whatever is most interesting.
Okay, well, the long answer is it's an interesting book to read, and it came out in many editions, and it was a very popular book for over 30 years.
So popular that there must be 7 million copies floating around.
Okay, and unfortunately, unless you're a record collector, and at this point there's not that many 78 people out there, it really doesn't have that much of a market value.
We sell it in a score for up to $5.
But other than that, it's still a good read, because it is a good history of music at that time period.
Yes, it definitely will.
Do you have anything else, sir, Bruce?
Yeah, a couple things.
One about that old, and also another one a little bit newer.
I have a novel by Winston Churchill called The Crossing.
Right.
Wrong Winston Churchill.
There are two Winston Churchills.
Interesting.
There is Winston Churchill, the American author, who wrote Inside the Cup and The Crossing and various other ones.
You know, Richard Carvel.
I mean, you remember that book, right, Bruce?
This is obviously a novel of colonial America.
That's right.
Yeah.
That is the American Winston Churchill, not to be mistaken, with Sir Winston Churchill, who also wrote at that time period such books as, to Lady Smith, a story of the South African Boer War, and various other books, which are now worth in the thousands.
Unfortunately, your Winston Churchill is worth about a dollar.
He's a very unpopular author as far as collectability, and is very famous probably for so many booksellers who have quoted his books thinking they had a Sir Winston Churchill who is highly collectible and have got an egg on their face.
In fact, as a matter of fact, Alan, on a previous program, you listed a whole bunch of things not to invest in, not to buy, and Winston Churchill, I believe, was number one or two.
I think it was number one, and we called him the other Winston Churchill.
So, you know, you're a proud owner of the other Winston Churchill.
Thanks very much for calling.
Okay, thanks very much.
Thank you.
That's Bruce down in Florida.
Let's go next to Roanoke, and Ellen, you're next on the book, guys.
Hi, how are you?
Very good.
I have a collection that my husband has bought, and it's the Canterbury Edition Complete Books of Joseph Conrad.
Mm-hmm.
And he has 24 volumes.
I think that's complete and dated 1924.
Right.
That's not the one that's signed.
This is the one in the green.
There's two editions.
This is in the green cloth or the blue cloth.
Sort of bluish gray.
Yes.
Okay.
Some of those are actually true first editions of Joseph Conrad novels.
It's not signed.
It's not the sign limited.
Is that correct?
I think you're correct.
Yeah, you would know in volume one it would say if it's signed because there's an edition that came out at about the same time, 40 volumes in a white-like buckram cloth that sells for about $500 that's signed.
Your set sells for anywhere from $250 to $400 depending on the condition.
Okay, it's in pretty good condition.
Good.
Very good.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Bye-bye.
Thank you for calling.
We'd like to remind you, speaking of calling, that our number is very simple, 1-800-828-BOOK.
It's open 24 hours a day, and we answer a lot of questions, even if you don't get on the air, and most of you will.
The questions that you have about the books you own and the books that you would like to preserve, as we had a caller earlier this evening who wanted to preserve her family's copy of The Complete Shakespeare, even though it had no market value, will give you tips on that as well.
And, of course, you can listen to the program every week and get that same kind of information.
But if you're really in a hurry and you'd like to get on the program, the number is 1-800-828-BOOK, B-O-O-K.
We have Bruce from Florida.
Let's go to Bruce in the District of Columbia.
Bruce, welcome to the Book Guys.
Well, thank you, Mike, and fellow Book Guys.
Alan, how are you?
I'm fine, Bruce.
How are you doing?
Good.
Cleaning up my basement just today, this is kind of fortuitous.
I ran across an old book.
I'm just curious.
I doubt that it's worth much, but it's Alice's Adventures in Wonderland, Lewis Carroll.
Random House edition dated.
It's...
With the illustrations by Fritz Cadell, by any chance?
You're amazing.
Thank you.
Yes, is it the limited edition club edition issued by Random House of the Alice illustrated by Fritz Cadell?
I don't see any reference.
Special edition.
Yes.
Okay, but in the back, is it signed as limitation?
No.
Okay.
There are four or five editions illustrated by Fritz Cadell of Alice that came out in the 40s.
One, the LEC, limited edition club, which sells for a couple hundred dollars.
Then there's the Heritage Press edition and the edition you have.
That edition generally sells for, is it a red binding?
Or is it the blue one?
It's blue.
It sells for about $15 to $30, depending on the condition.
It's a popular book.
Alice is interesting because when it was published, the true first edition of Alice in Wonderland was suppressed by the author because they did not like the illustrations.
So the actual real first edition is the second edition.
And that sells for thousands upon thousands upon thousands of dollars.
And not until 1896,
Or is anybody else allowed to do the illustrations other than John Tenniel because there was a copyright law?
But the second that the copyright law elapsed, about 100 people illustrated the book and came out with a variety of different interpretations of Alice in Wonderland, which created a new market in collecting Alice.
There are hundreds of different illustrators for Alice in Wonderland, of which Fritz Cradell is one of them.
But do you really think this book is worth $15 to $30?
I hope it is because that's what we sell it for in the store.
Ah.
Well, maybe I should go back and clean the basement a little more and see if I can find the limited edition.
Well, good luck.
Thank you very much for calling.
Thank you.
Most people store their books in their basement or their attic.
If you had your choice and you had to store them either place, which would you pick?
Well, it would depend if you're living at sea level or not.
I would certainly think that the attic would be better if your roof was good.
It tends to be less apt to have mildew, so attic, except it's along a hall.
We've got time for one more quick call.
Alexis, you're next and quick with the book guys.
Hello.
Hi there.
Hi.
I'll do a real quick one.
I have a book of modern British poetry, blue leather-bound, heavily embossed, Key Nelson and Sons in London.
In Edinburgh in 1864, and I didn't know if it might be worth something.
Does it have illustrations in it?
Yes, it does.
Steel engravings?
They seem to be, yes.
Okay.
A guesstimate, a general book of that time period.
What's the size?
Eight and a half by 11?
No, it's smaller.
It's four by seven.
Four by seven.
Most probably worth anywhere from $30 to $75, depending on the condition and the illustrations.
Okay, wonderful.
Thank you very much.
You know, I bumped into a book the other day.
It was called The Gift of 1895.
Big deal.
Bunch of authors.
Hardly meaningful at all except for one thing.
What's that?
The Purloined Letter by Edgar Allan Poe.
Wrong year, Mike.
Was it 1845?
Yes.
That's right.
1845.
I knew it was something five.
Would never have guessed it had something valuable in it, but it did.
So some of these collection books are not always less valuable than what you think.
Oh, sometimes they're the finds of the year, because that's where the first appearance of specific books are.
The first appearance of The Star Spangled Banner is in a magazine, The Analectic, in 1814.
What's the tune to The Star Spangled Banner?
Do you know?
The tune?
Uh-huh.
See, I knew I'd get you.
Wait, wait.
An Acreon in Heaven.
There you go.
You're a music major.
An old drinking song.
Right.
That takes us all as far into trivia as I want to go tonight.
Right, especially at the end.
We've had some great calls tonight.
Thank you very much for calling us at 1-800-828-BOOK.
That's the number for the book, guys.
The book, guys, is produced live on tape at the studios of WAMU-FM in Washington, D.C.
Our executive producer is Janelle Haskell.
Our engineer is Karen McManus.
Marketing by Tim Haskell of Haskell & Marceau.
Associate Producers are Kim Stipek and Jennifer Cuthbert.
The Book Guys is made possible by Second Story Books in Washington.
Join us next week on this same station for more about the rare world of used books.
Reading, printing, and collecting with The Book Guys.
Speaking for Alan Stipek, I'm Mike Cuthbert in Washington.
See you later.
.